High in this video we're going to take a quick look at conditionals so conditionals will look at the
if statement and we can write something like this or a girls let's say two and then if A is less than
five print is less than five and we can leave it at that.
That's the statement.
So in this case it was two.
So it was less than five.
So we printed that.
If it's something greater than five maybe six then it won't do anything because well that's it.
It's not going to execute this line.
If A is a group is greater than equal to 5 if we wanted to execute we can put an else statement and
that will therefore happen when the condition is not met and we can say print A is greater than equal
to 5 and we have that result there.
IF statements can also be nested within each other.
So let's say we have a called 10 and we can say this if A is less than five and you can test the IF
statements either inside the if block or in the else block it doesn't matter either one will support
it basically you know this is just a code block that can contain anything you want.
Any other view or Python code you want comments anything you want.
So if it is less than five it's print again.
Pay is less than 5 else and you will do another test.
If is less than 10 well we'll print and say that a is greater than or equal to 5 and less than 10 that's
going to be between five and 10.
Obviously if a was is less than 10 but greater than 5 while it's greater than five it's going to fall
into the else statement.
So it's going to be greater than or equal to 5 and here less than 10.
OK.
And then we can also put in an else statement I will say print pay is greater than or equal to 10.
So because I was 10 we printed was greater than or equal to 10 would make a equal to 8.
And we see that is between 5 and 10.
And if we make a call to 4 we get A's less than five and we can test the edge conditions like five.
And we get precisely A's you know greater than equal to five and less than 10.
There is of course an easier way to do it than writing nested if statements this way in other languages.
You have something called the switch or a case statement and you have that in you know Java and Z Shompen
and swift and so on what you don't have that in Python the closest that we have to a switch case statement
in Python is the L if.
So let's Like a look at that will do the same problem again.
We'll say if a is less than 5 percent pays less than 5.
If so it's like saying else if and now we have to give the condition again.
So we'll say A is less than 10.
We'll print that A.
That 5 is less than or equal to A is less than 10.
And we can put as many statements as we want so we can say if A is less than 15 then we'll print and
say that 10 is less when we go to a less than 15 and we can even put another one in as I said we can
put as many as we want to put 20 here and printed 20 15 people to pay less than 20.
And then we can finally put up or else at the very end.
And so it is greater than 20 10.
So this is how it works.
Now obviously we can test out each branch so we can put a call to three.
It falls inside this branch here.
Equal to eight falls inside this branch.
If we put a bill to 12 fold inside this one 18 you get the picture.
And then the last one is well kept.
So that's the F and L if else statements.
And that's the most common way of branching off basically you know having a conditional evaluation so
we execute a piece of block a piece of code a block of code based on the condition being satisfied or
not the other thing is that Python also has something called a conditional expression also known as
the TONRY operator.
And the way it works is that it says the following it will return X so it will evaluate and return x
if some condition is true.
Otherwise it will return y.
So it's a bit like saying the following.
So if we say equals 25 if a is less than 5 percent.
Well I'm going to put a B.
I'm going to say B is equal to A.
Is less than five.
ELSE B equals A is greater than or equal to 5.
And now we'll just print B.
So this is a just a regular if else statement.
But we can use the term free operator.
We fix that type over here and we like seeing that.
OK.
So we can write this in a different way.
We can say the following.
We can say B equals A is less than 5.
If A is less than 5 else A is greater than or equal to 5 and it just reads pretty straightforward.
B is equal to this if this otherwise this.
Right.
And that's a pretty natural way of reading that.
And if we print B you'll see that we get a greater than equal to 5 if we make a equal to 4 and we redo.
Now this just returns a value right.
This is an expression that gets evaluated to a value.
So we don't have to assign it to a variable.
In this interactive python as usual.
Because remember if we do something like this in the notebook it just returns the value of whatever
expression is there.
Well we can do the same thing with this over here.
We can just return the van.
So let's make a equal to 4.
OK and let's just print out what that returns and it returned the string is less than 5.
So that's the TONRY operator.
It's pretty useful for having short kind of one liners.
But of course you know it can't handle blocks of code in here.
It's really almost more like an and or boolean operator in the sense that it's good but it's not going
to return.
You know what the ends and the always returns.
But it's a slightly different construct but it's an expression that returns a value.
It's not something to evaluate blocks of code for that you have to use the F and L statements.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.